Java Multithreading
Threads are light-weight process within a process

Thread can be created by extending Thread class
class MyClass extends Thread {
    public void run() {
        ...
    }
}

Or implements Runnable interface
class MyClass implements Runnable {
    public void run() {
        ...
    }   
}

thread state
new (create a thread)
runnable (start thread)
terminated(run method exits)
blocked (aquire a lock)
waiting (waiting for notification)
timed waiting(waiting for notification or timeouts)

Synchronized block ensures only one thread running at a time, only one thread can access the resource at the same time
Semaphore controls access to a shared resource through the use of a counter
sem.aquire();
...
sem.release();

What happens when you type a URL in web browser?
A URL may contain request to HTML, image file or any other type.

If content of the typed URL is in cache and fresh, then display the content.
Else find IP address for the domain so that a TCP connection can be setup. Browser does a DNS lookup.
Browser needs to know IP address for a url, so that it can setup a TCP connection.  This is why browser needs DNS service.  Browser first looks for URL-IP mapping browser cache, then in OS cache. If all caches are empty, then it makes a recursive query to the local DNS server.   The local DNS server provides the IP address.
Browser sets up a TCP connection using three way handshake.
Browser sends a HTTP request.
Server has a web server like Apache, IIS running that handles incoming HTTP request and sends a HTTP response.
Browser receives the HTTP response and renders the content.
What is DHCP, how does it work?

The idea of DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) is to enable devices to get IP address without any manual configuration.
The device sends a broadcast message saying “I am new here”
The DHCP server sees the message and responds back to the device and typically allocates an IP address. All other devices on network ignore the message of new device as they are not DHCP server.

What is a Thread? What are the differences between process and thread?
A thread is a single sequence stream within in a process. Because threads have some of the properties of processes, they are sometimes called lightweight processes. 

What is deadlock? 
Deadlock is a situation when two or more processes wait for each other to finish and none of them ever finish

What are the necessary conditions for deadlock?
Mutual Exclusion: There is s resource that cannot be shared.
Hold and Wait: A process is holding at least one resource and waiting for another resource which is with some other process.
No Preemption: The operating system is not allowed to take a resource back from a process until process gives it back.
Circular Wait:  A set of processes are waiting for each other in circular form.

What is Virtual Memory? How is it implemented?
Virtual memory creates an illusion that each user has one or more contiguous address spaces, each beginning at address zero. The sizes of such virtual address spaces is generally very high.
The idea of virtual memory is to use disk space to extend the RAM. Running processes don’t need to care whether the memory is from RAM or disk. The illusion of such a large amount of memory is created by subdividing the virtual memory into smaller pieces, which can be loaded into physical memory whenever they are needed by a process.

What is Thrashing?
Thrashing is a situation when the performance of a computer degrades or collapses. Thrashing occurs when a system spends more time processing page faults than executing transactions.

